---------------------------------
Construction Process
--------------------------------
To begin the construction process, our group focused on programming the sensors with an Arduino board provided by the school. This led to a conclusion that the conductivity sensor would not work. This was the first one we tested finding that the wires need to be extremely close and secure in order to work which is not a viable option in a system with lots of movement. We moved onto testing the infrared sensors. These proved to be quite a good option as they could work over a good distance. However, we found that the infrared sensor is not as good of an option as we first determined because the lack of strength of the sensors in a dark environment. We are looking into stronger sensors that are capable of working in the dark since the group thinks this system still has potential to work.
After the sensors had been tested we started to develop the idea of our actual prototype and what it would look like. We realized a heavy base to secure the system in the tank is rather expensive and cost inefficient. Our next idea was to attach clamps at the top of the bucket we decided to use as a makeshift water tank. This would be easier and much more affordable for the group budget. Inside the bucket we use a simple PVC pipe that is about 1 1/2" which can fit a ping pong almost perfectly inside. There are also holes drilled in the side so water can fill into the tube more easily. Also, on the side the Arduino board will be attached and wires will go down into the bucket to attach to the PVC pipe.
The last thing we focused on for the prototype was waterproofing the infrared sensors. This proved to be easier than anticipated. Heat shrink tubing and silicon proved to be easy and affordable options for this and the wires themselves are rather water resistant. After we had done that our prototype was essentially functional and finished.
Since the prototype really could incorporate only half of the design, it was easier to make and the construction process was not too complicated. We figured out the fall backs to our system and are working on finding viable options that will make this work the most efficiently and for the cheapest amount. Some great resources of our system so far has been Tim May and Professor Soltys who have given us information on what pieces of technology to use and how to waterproof the system. Our next step is to determine which Xbee Wireless Antenna to use and which Arduino board will serve our purposes best. We need to now transition this system over to the farm.
